Add Desktop SDK MSBuild properties article (#22676)
dotnet/docs: docs/core/project-sdk/msbuild-props-desktop.md

ms.date: 02/04/2021
ms.topic: reference
author: adegeo
ms.author: adegeo
ms.custom: updateeachrelease
no-loc: ["App.xaml", "Application.xaml", "ApplicationDefinition", "Page", "EmbeddedResource", "Compile", "None"]
---
# MSBuild reference for .NET Desktop SDK projects

This page is a reference for the MSBuild properties and items that you use to configure Windows Forms (WinForms) and Windows Presentation Foundation (WPF) projects with the .NET Desktop SDK.

> [!NOTE]
> This article documents a subset of the MSBuild properties for the .NET SDK as it relates to desktop apps. For a list of common .NET SDK-specific MSBuild properties, see [MSBuild reference for .NET SDK projects](msbuild-props.md). For a list of common MSBuild properties, see [Common MSBuild properties](/visualstudio/msbuild/common-msbuild-project-properties).

## Enable .NET Desktop SDK

To use WinForms or WPF, configure your project file.

### .NET 5.0

WinForms and WPF projects should specify the following settings in the project file:

- Target the .NET SDK `Microsoft.NET.Sdk`. For more information, see [Project files](overview.md#project-files).
- Set the `TargetFramework` to `net5.0-windows`.

> - Set one of the following to enable a UI framework:

Reviewer: `UseWindowsForms` and `UseWPF` aren't mutually exclusive, and can be used together, if necessary.
Applies below as well.

Reviewer: ❗  There are still instances in the code that imply these are mutually exclusive. E.g. line:41, line:54, etc.

```xml
<PropertyGroup>
  <EnableDefaultApplicationDefinition>false</EnableDefaultApplicationDefinition>
</PropertyGroup>
```

This property requires that the [`EnableDefaultItems` property](msbuild-props.md#enabledefaultitems) property is set to `true`, which is the default setting.

### EnableDefaultPageItems

The `EnableDefaultPageItems` property controls whether `Page` items, which are _.xaml_ files, are implicitly included in the project. The default value is `true`. Set the `EnableDefaultPageItems` property to `false` to disable the implicit file inclusion.

```xml
<PropertyGroup>
  <EnableDefaultPageItems>false</EnableDefaultPageItems>
</PropertyGroup>
```

This property requires that the [`EnableDefaultItems` property](msbuild-props.md#enabledefaultitems) property is set to `true`, which is the default setting.

## WinForms settings

- [UseWindowsForms](#usewindowsforms)

For more information about standard .NET SDK project properties, see [MSBuild reference for .NET SDK projects](msbuild-props.md).

### UseWindowsForms

> The `UseWindowsForms` property controls whether or not your application is built to target Windows Forms. This property alters the MSBuild pipeline to correctly process a WinForms project and related files. The default value is `false`. Set the `UseWindowsForms` property to `true` to enable WinForms support. You can only target the Windows platform when this setting is enabled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `UseWindowsForms` property controls whether or not your application is built to target Windows Forms. This property alters the MSBuild pipeline to correctly process a Windows Forms project and related files. The default value is `false`. Set the `UseWindowsForms` property to `true` to enable Windows Forms support. You can only target the Windows platform when this setting is enabled.
```

Author: What is the reasoning on this? I'm not sure when to use WinForms vs Windows Forms. I did (at the start of the article) say `Windows Forms (WinForms)`

Reviewer: I missed the top bit :)
But as a general practice I prefer to use "Windows Forms", and be consistent throughout - I find it jarring when terms constantly change back and forth. Could be just me though.

---
title: MSBuild properties for Microsoft.NET.Sdk.Desktop
description: Reference for the MSBuild properties and items that are understood by the .NET Desktop SDK which includes WPF and WinForms.
ms.date: 02/04/2021
ms.topic: reference
author: adegeo
ms.author: adegeo
ms.custom: updateeachrelease
no-loc: ["App.xaml", "Application.xaml", "ApplicationDefinition", "Page", "EmbeddedResource", "Compile", "None"]
---
# MSBuild reference for .NET Desktop SDK projects

This page is a reference for the MSBuild properties and items that you use to configure Windows Forms (WinForms) and Windows Presentation Foundation (WPF) projects with the .NET Desktop SDK.

> [!NOTE]
> This article documents a subset of the MSBuild properties for the .NET SDK as it relates to desktop apps. For a list of common .NET SDK-specific MSBuild properties, see [MSBuild reference for .NET SDK projects](msbuild-props.md). For a list of common MSBuild properties, see [Common MSBuild properties](/visualstudio/msbuild/common-msbuild-project-properties).

## Enable .NET Desktop SDK

To use WinForms or WPF, configure your project file.

### .NET 5.0

> WinForms and WPF projects should specify the following settings in the project file:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Specify the following settings in the project file of your WinForms or WPF project:
```

- Target the .NET SDK `Microsoft.NET.Sdk`. For more information, see [Project files](overview.md#project-files).

> - Set the `TargetFramework` to `net5.0-windows`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Set [TargetFramework](msbuild-props.md#targetframework) to `net5.0-windows`.
```

Author: Would you not want to still surround it with inline code?

```suggestion
- Set [`TargetFramework`](msbuild-props.md#targetframework) to `net5.0-windows`.
```

Reviewer 2: That's fine. I don't normally format links like that, but I know some people do.

Reviewer: I like formatting ;)

- Add a UI framework property:
  - Set `UseWPF` to `true` to import and use WPF.
  - Set `UseWindowsForms` to `true` to import and use WinForms.
- (Optional) Set `OutputType` to `WinExe`. This produces an app as opposed to a library. To produce a library, omit this property.

```xml
<Project Sdk="Microsoft.NET.Sdk">

  <PropertyGroup>
    <OutputType>WinExe</OutputType>
    <TargetFramework>net5.0-windows</TargetFramework>

    <UseWPF>true</UseWPF>
    <!-- or -->
    <UseWindowsForms>true</UseWindowsForms>
  </PropertyGroup>

</Project>
```

### .NET Core 3.1

> 

Reviewer 2: Add an intro like you did for .net 5?

> 

Author: ```suggestion

Specify the following settings in the project file of your WinForms or WPF project:

```

- Target the .NET SDK `Microsoft.NET.Sdk.WindowsDesktop`. For more information, see [Project files](overview.md#project-files).

> - Set the `TargetFramework` to `netcoreapp3.1`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Set [TargetFramework](msbuild-props.md#targetframework) to `netcoreapp3.1`.
```

- Set one of the following to enable a UI framework:
  - Set `UseWPF` to `true` to use WPF.
  - Set `UseWindowsForms` to `true` to use WinForms.
- (Optional) Set `OutputType` to `WinExe`. This produces an app as opposed to a library. To produce a library, omit this property.

```xml
<Project Sdk="Microsoft.NET.Sdk.WindowsDesktop">

  <PropertyGroup>
    <OutputType>WinExe</OutputType>
    <TargetFramework>netcoreapp3.1</TargetFramework>

    <UseWPF>true</UseWPF>
    <!-- or -->
    <UseWindowsForms>true</UseWindowsForms>
  </PropertyGroup>

</Project>
```

> ## WPF default include exclude

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## WPF default includes and excludes
```

Author: So my reasoning on this: even though it's grammatically incorrect, it prevents the H2 TOC from wrapping and still communicates the thought. However, looking at the winforms and playing with the preview site, there is no way to use "Windows Forms" in the H2 and not prevent wrapping. Even using `WinForms includes and excludes` causes wrapping.. Not sure what a good H2 will end up being.

Any other ideas to prevent wrapping? Here are some tests I did: (including winforms stuff as hopefully I'll get this information eventually)

| Title | Single line H2 |
| --- | --- |
| WPF default include exclude | ✔️  |
| WPF default includes & excludes | ❌  |
| WPF default includes and excludes | ❌  |
| WPF includes and excludes | ✔️  |
| WPF includes & excludes | ✔️  |
| Windows Forms *  | ❌ |
| WinForms default include exclude | ❌ |
| WinForms default includes & excludes | ❌ |
| WinForms default includes and excludes | ❌ |
| WinForms includes and excludes | ❌ |
| WinForms includes & excludes | ✔️  |

*Any title with Windows Forms wrapped

The only thing I can see that creates a clean H2 TOC is 

- WPF includes & excludes
- WinForms includes & excludes

Reviewer: Can we trick with non-breakable spaces (`&nbsp;`)?

Reviewer 2: We could also consider adding WPF and Windows Forms as subsections on the [Overview page's includes/excludes section](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/core/project-sdk/overview#default-includes-and-excludes). That would solve your H2 wrapping problem, and might make more sense because you wouldn't have to duplicate the includes/excludes table from that page (which might get out of date if the main article is updated).

Author: I think it makes more sense to just have all the information in this article. I don't think the defaults will change very often if ever.

> SDK project files define a set of rules to implicitly include or exclude files from the project. These rules also automatically set the file's build action. This is unlike the older non-SDK .NET Framework projects, which had no default include or exclude rules. .NET Framework projects required you to explicitly declare which files to include in the project.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
SDK project files define a set of rules to implicitly include or exclude files from the project. These rules also automatically set the file's build action. This is unlike the older non-SDK .NET Framework projects, which have no default include or exclude rules. .NET Framework projects require you to explicitly declare which files to include in the project.
```

.NET project files include a [standard set of rules](overview.md#default-includes-and-excludes) for automatically processing files. WPF projects add additional rules.

> The following table shows which elements and which [globs](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Glob_(programming)) are included and excluded in the .NET Desktop SDK when the [`UseWPF`](#usewpf) project property is set to `true`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following table shows which elements and [globs](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Glob_(programming)) are included and excluded in the .NET Desktop SDK when the [`UseWPF`](#usewpf) project property is set to `true`:
```

| None                  | N/A                          | N/A                                                                | \*\*/\*.xaml |

Here are the default include and exclude settings for all project types. For more information, see [Default includes and excludes](overview.md#default-includes-and-excludes).

| Element           | Include glob                              | Exclude glob                                                  | Remove glob              |
|-------------------|-------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------|
| Compile           | \*\*/\*.cs; \*\*/\*.vb (or other language extensions) | \*\*/\*.user;  \*\*/\*.\*proj;  \*\*/\*.sln;  \*\*/\*.vssscc  | N/A          |
| EmbeddedResource  | \*\*/\*.resx                              | \*\*/\*.user; \*\*/\*.\*proj; \*\*/\*.sln; \*\*/\*.vssscc     | N/A                      |
| None              | \*\*/\*                                   | \*\*/\*.user; \*\*/\*.\*proj; \*\*/\*.sln; \*\*/\*.vssscc     | \*\*/\*.cs; \*\*/\*.resx |

### Errors related to "duplicate" items

> If you explicitly added files to your project, or have XAML globs to automatically include files in your project, you'll possibly get one of the following errors:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you explicitly added files to your project, or have XAML globs to automatically include files in your project, you might get one of the following errors:
```

* Duplicate 'ApplicationDefinition' items were included.
* Duplicate 'Page' items were included.

> These errors are a result of the implicit *Include* globs conflicting with your settings. To work around this problem, either set [`EnableDefaultApplicationDefinition`](#enabledefaultapplicationdefinition) or [`EnableDefaultPageItems`](#enabledefaultpageitems) to `false`. Setting these values to `false` reverts to the behavior of previous SDKs where you had to explicitly define the default globs in your project, or explicitly define the files to include in the project.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
These errors are a result of the implicit *Include* globs conflicting with your settings. To work around this problem, set either [`EnableDefaultApplicationDefinition`](#enabledefaultapplicationdefinition) or [`EnableDefaultPageItems`](#enabledefaultpageitems) to `false`. Setting these values to `false` reverts to the behavior of previous SDKs where you had to explicitly define the default globs in your project, or explicitly define the files to include in the project.
```

You can completely disable all implicit includes by setting the [`EnableDefaultItems` property](msbuild-props.md#enabledefaultitems) to `false`.

## WPF settings

- [UseWPF](#usewpf)
- [EnableDefaultApplicationDefinition](#enabledefaultapplicationdefinition)
- [EnableDefaultPageItems](#enabledefaultpageitems)

> For more information about standard .NET SDK project settings, see [MSBuild reference for .NET SDK projects](msbuild-props.md).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For information about non-WPF-specific project settings, see [MSBuild reference for .NET SDK projects](msbuild-props.md).
```

### UseWPF

The `UseWPF` property controls whether or not to include references to WPF libraries. This also alters the MSBuild pipeline to correctly process a WPF project and related files. The default value is `false`. Set the `UseWPF` property to `true` to enable WPF support. You can only target the Windows platform when this property is enabled.

```xml
<PropertyGroup>
  <UseWPF>true</UseWPF>
</PropertyGroup>
```

> .NET 5.0 projects will automatically import the [.NET Desktop SDK](#enable-net-desktop-sdk) when this property is set to `true`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When this property is set to `true`, .NET 5.0+ projects will automatically import the [.NET Desktop SDK](#enable-net-desktop-sdk).
```

### EnableDefaultApplicationDefinition

The `EnableDefaultApplicationDefinition` property controls whether `ApplicationDefinition` items are implicitly included in the project. The default value is `true`. Set the `EnableDefaultApplicationDefinition` property to `false` to disable the implicit file inclusion.

```xml
<PropertyGroup>
  <EnableDefaultApplicationDefinition>false</EnableDefaultApplicationDefinition>
</PropertyGroup>
```

This property requires that the [`EnableDefaultItems` property](msbuild-props.md#enabledefaultitems) property is set to `true`, which is the default setting.

### EnableDefaultPageItems

The `EnableDefaultPageItems` property controls whether `Page` items, which are _.xaml_ files, are implicitly included in the project. The default value is `true`. Set the `EnableDefaultPageItems` property to `false` to disable the implicit file inclusion.

```xml
<PropertyGroup>
  <EnableDefaultPageItems>false</EnableDefaultPageItems>
</PropertyGroup>
```

This property requires that the [`EnableDefaultItems` property](msbuild-props.md#enabledefaultitems) property is set to `true`, which is the default setting.

> ## WinForms settings

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Windows Forms settings
```

- [UseWindowsForms](#usewindowsforms)

> For more information about standard .NET SDK project properties, see [MSBuild reference for .NET SDK projects](msbuild-props.md).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For information about non-WinForms-specific project properties, see [MSBuild reference for .NET SDK projects](msbuild-props.md).
```

### UseWindowsForms

The `UseWindowsForms` property controls whether or not your application is built to target Windows Forms. This property alters the MSBuild pipeline to correctly process a Windows Forms project and related files. The default value is `false`. Set the `UseWindowsForms` property to `true` to enable Windows Forms support. You can only target the Windows platform when this setting is enabled.

```xml
<PropertyGroup>
  <UseWindowsForms>true</UseWindowsForms>
</PropertyGroup>
```

> .NET 5.0 projects will automatically import the [.NET Desktop SDK](#enable-net-desktop-sdk) when this property is set to `true`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When this property is set to `true`, .NET 5.0+ projects will automatically import the [.NET Desktop SDK](#enable-net-desktop-sdk).
```

ms.date: 02/04/2021
ms.topic: reference
author: adegeo
ms.author: adegeo
ms.custom: updateeachrelease
no-loc: ["App.xaml", "Application.xaml", "ApplicationDefinition", "Page", "EmbeddedResource", "Compile", "None"]
---
# MSBuild reference for .NET Desktop SDK projects

This page is a reference for the MSBuild properties and items that you use to configure Windows Forms (WinForms) and Windows Presentation Foundation (WPF) projects with the .NET Desktop SDK.

> [!NOTE]
> This article documents a subset of the MSBuild properties for the .NET SDK as it relates to desktop apps. For a list of common .NET SDK-specific MSBuild properties, see [MSBuild reference for .NET SDK projects](msbuild-props.md). For a list of common MSBuild properties, see [Common MSBuild properties](/visualstudio/msbuild/common-msbuild-project-properties).

## Enable .NET Desktop SDK

To use WinForms or WPF, configure your project file.

### .NET 5.0

Specify the following settings in the project file of your WinForms or WPF project:

- Target the .NET SDK `Microsoft.NET.Sdk`. For more information, see [Project files](overview.md#project-files).
- Set the `TargetFramework` to `net5.0-windows`.

> - Add a UI framework property:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Add a UI framework property (or both, if necessary):
```

  - Set [`UseWPF`](#usewpf) to `true` to import and use WPF.
  - Set [`UseWindowsForms`](#usewindowsforms) to `true` to import and use WinForms.
- (Optional) Set `OutputType` to `WinExe`. This produces an app as opposed to a library. To produce a library, omit this property.

```xml
<Project Sdk="Microsoft.NET.Sdk">

  <PropertyGroup>
    <OutputType>WinExe</OutputType>
    <TargetFramework>net5.0-windows</TargetFramework>

    <UseWPF>true</UseWPF>

>     <!-- or -->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    <!-- and/or -->
```

    <UseWindowsForms>true</UseWindowsForms>
  </PropertyGroup>

</Project>
```

### .NET Core 3.1

Specify the following settings in the project file of your WinForms or WPF project:

- Target the .NET SDK `Microsoft.NET.Sdk.WindowsDesktop`. For more information, see [Project files](overview.md#project-files).
- Set [`TargetFramework`](msbuild-props.md#targetframework) to `netcoreapp3.1`.

> - Set one of the following to enable a UI framework:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Add a UI framework property (or both, if necessary):
```

  - Set [`UseWPF`](#usewpf) to `true` to import and use WPF.
  - Set [`UseWindowsForms`](#usewindowsforms) to `true` to import and use WinForms.
- (Optional) Set `OutputType` to `WinExe`. This produces an app as opposed to a library. To produce a library, omit this property.

```xml
<Project Sdk="Microsoft.NET.Sdk.WindowsDesktop">

  <PropertyGroup>
    <OutputType>WinExe</OutputType>
    <TargetFramework>netcoreapp3.1</TargetFramework>

    <UseWPF>true</UseWPF>

>     <!-- or -->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    <!-- and/or -->
```

</PropertyGroup>
```

This property requires that the [`EnableDefaultItems` property](msbuild-props.md#enabledefaultitems) property is set to `true`, which is the default setting.

## Windows Forms settings

- [UseWindowsForms](#usewindowsforms)

For information about non-WinForms-specific project properties, see [MSBuild reference for .NET SDK projects](msbuild-props.md).

### UseWindowsForms

The `UseWindowsForms` property controls whether or not your application is built to target Windows Forms. This property alters the MSBuild pipeline to correctly process a Windows Forms project and related files. The default value is `false`. Set the `UseWindowsForms` property to `true` to enable Windows Forms support. You can only target the Windows platform when this setting is enabled.

```xml
<PropertyGroup>
  <UseWindowsForms>true</UseWindowsForms>
</PropertyGroup>
```

When this property is set to `true`, .NET 5.0+ projects will automatically import the [.NET Desktop SDK](#enable-net-desktop-sdk).

.NET Core 3.1 projects need to explicitly target the [.NET Desktop SDK](#enable-net-desktop-sdk) to use this property.

## Shared settings

> - [DisableWinExeOutputInference](#disablewinExeoutputinference)

Author: ```suggestion
- [DisableWinExeOutputInference](#disablewinexeoutputinference)
```
